## #A scalable language
`Flexible`

- Scala lets you add new types, collections, and control
  constructs that feel like they are built-in to the language
  
`Convenient`
- The Scala standard library has a set of convenient predefined
  types, collections, and control constructs
---
`Who uses Scala?`

- Roles
  - Software Engineer
  - Data Engineer
  - Data Scientist
  - Machine Learning Engineer
- Industries
  - Finance
  - Tech
  - Healthcare
    etc....
## What is Scala?

Welcome to Introduction to Scala! In this exercise, you'll categorize statements as either true or false so you will be able to answer the question "What is Scala?"

Instructions
> Categorize the following statements about Scala as true or false.
- True
  - Scala powers some of the world's largest webstes, applications, and data
  engineering Infrastructures
  - Scala executable code runs on a Java virtual machIne
  - Scala Is a general-purpose programming language
  - Scala source code Is Intended to be complled to Java bytecode
  - Many of Scala's design declsions almed to address criticlsms of Java
- False
  - Scala means "fudgeslcle" In Swedish
## Why use Scala?

Scala is a portmanteau for "scalable language" as it was designed to grow with the demands of its users, from writing small scripts to building massive systems for data processing, distributed computing, and more. Like a bazaar and unlike a cathedral, Scala is designed to be adapted and extended by the people working (programming) in it.

**Analogies help us form mental models** by transferring knowledge from a known domain to an unknown domain. In this exercise, you'll categorize well-known things as scalable or not to reinforce your instinctual answer to "Why use Scala?"

Instructions
> Categorize the following items as Scalable or Not scalable.
- Scalable
  - Scala
  - Farmers' market
  - Bazaar
  - Lego
- Not scalable
  - Cathedral
  - Emplre State Bullding
  - The Taj Mahal
## Who uses Scala?

If you search "Scala" on job sites, the most common job titles you'll come across are variants of software engineer and data engineer. You'll also see data scientist and machine learning engineer as companies adopt Scala alongside large-scale data processing tools like Apache Spark (which is written in Scala). In this exercise, you'll search Indeed (a popular search engine for jobs) to gain an awareness of the types of roles and industries that use Scala, as well as complementary skills. This exercise will help frame your learning in real-world business problems.

Go to indeed.com (or another website with job postings).
Search "Scala data engineer" and find a job post for a data engineer that uses Scala and read through it.
Search "Scala data scientist" and find a job post for a data scientist that uses Scala and read through it.
Search "Scala machine learning engineer" and find a job post for a machine learning engineer that uses Scala and read through it.
> Answer the following question when done: "Did I complete the tasks David asked me to?"

Possible Answers
- [x] Yes
- [ ] No
- [ ] No, but I'm going to say I did anyway
## #Scala code and the Scala interpreter

## What makes Scala scalable?

The scalability of a language depends on several factors. The creator of the language (Martin Odersky), however, believes there are two main factors that contribute the most to Scala being scalable: Scala being object-oriented and Scala being functional.

In this exercise, you'll demonstrate your knowledge of what each factor means by classifying statements about them.

scala> val symbolAceSpades: String = "A♠"

Instructions
> Classify the following features of Scala as object-oriented or functional.

- Object-oriented
  - Every value Is an object
  - Every operation Is a method call
- Functional
  - Functions are first-class values
  - Operatlons of a program should map Input values to output values rather
    than change data In place 
## Scala is object-oriented

Scala is an object-oriented language because every value is an object and every operation is a method call. This fact means the following lines of code both result in the value 6:

val sumB = 2.+(4)

val sumA = 2 + 4

The same principle applies to the subtraction operator (-), as operators are methods in Scala. In this exercise, you'll experience how Scala is object-oriented by converting code that Scala executes behind-the-scenes to the code you'll normally write in practice.

scala> val symbolAceSpades: String = "A♠"

symbolAceSpades: String = A♠

Instructions
- [x] Rewrite the provided subtraction code in standard arithmetic notation (e.g., 2 + 4).
- [x] Print the difference using the println function.
```scala
// Calculate the difference between 8 and 5
val difference = 8.-(5)

// Print the difference
println(8-5)
```
## Reasons for programming in Scala
> Beyond scalability, which includes Scala's fusion of object-oriented and functional programming, there are many reasons why one would choose to learn Scala. Of the   potential reasons listed below, select the reason that is not true.

Answer the question

Possible Answers...

- [ ] Scala is compatible
- [ ] Scala is concise
- [ ] Scala is statically-typed
- [x] Functions and methods are the same in Scala
- [ ] Scala is high-level
- [ ] Scala lets you write small and/or large programs, elegantly
## #Immutable variables (val) and value types

`scala variables`
- val (immutable)
  - can't be reassigned
- var (mutable)

`scala value types` `--every value in scala are objects`
- Double
- Float
- Long
- Int
- Short
- Byte
- Char
- Boolean
- Unit
## Define immutable variables (val)

Scala has two kinds of variables: val and var. val are immutable, which means once initialized, they can't be reassigned.

In Twenty-One, a val is like any non-ace card. That is, 2 through 10 (worth 2 through 10 points) and all face cards (jack, queen, and king are worth 10 points) all have the same point value throughout the game.

In this exercise, you will define variables for some non-ace cards, each as a val of type Int (one of the four most common value types for data-related tasks). In the next lesson, you'll learn why immutable variables are preferred in Scala.

Instructions
- [x] Define variables for cards 2, 3, and 4 for the suit clubs (♣). Explicitly specify their type as Int.
```scala
// Define immutable variables for clubs 2♣ through 4♣
val twoClubs: Int = 2
val threeClubs: Int = 3
val fourClubs: Int = 4
```
## Don't try to change me

Imagine a three-player game of Twenty-One with your friends Alex, Chen, and Marta. Then imagine Marta dropping out of the game and your friend Umberto joining in her place. Note that player names are of type String, which is a sequence of Char in Scala. String is also commonly used in data-related tasks.

In this exercise, you will define immutable variables (val) then try to reassign them. You will encounter an error. Seeing this error message in a controlled setting will help you interpret this message and similar ones when you're coding on your own in the future.

Instructions
- [x] Define playerA, playerB, and playerC as immutable variables with the strings "Alex", "Chen", and "Marta", respectively.
- [x] Read the code that reassigns playerC to "Umberto". Click "Run Code" and observe the error.
- [x] Delete the code that reassigns playerC to "Umberto".
- [x] Change the original playerC variable definition from "Marta" to "Umberto".
```scala
// Define immutable variables for player names
val playerA: String = "Alex"
val playerB: String = "Chen"
val playerC: String = "Umberto" // was "Marta"

// Change playerC from Marta to Umberto
//playerC = "Umberto"
```
## Define mutable variables (var)

Scala has two kinds of variables: val and var. var are mutable and can be reassigned.

In Twenty-One, an ace is like a var, as it can be worth 1 or 11 points depending on the player's choice (as opposed to cards 2 through king, which have a constant point value throughout the game).

In this exercise, you will define each ace as a var of type Int set to a default value of 1 point. This time around, you'll leverage Scala's type inference (its ability to guess types based on supplied values) and omit the type annotation.

Instructions
- [x] Define four mutable variables, all of type Int and equal to 1: aceClubs, aceDiamonds, aceHearts, aceSpades.
```scala
// Define mutable variables for all aces
var aceClubs: Int = 1
var aceDiamonds: Int = 1
var aceHearts: Int = 1
var aceSpades: Int = 1
```
## You can change me
Let's test out a prototype one-player version of Twenty-One. Your friend Alex is playerA. They are dealt two cards: the jack of clubs (J♣) and the ace of diamonds (A♦). They know the default implementation of the game has aces worth 1 point but they want it to be worth 11 so they can add their two cards together to get 21.

In this exercise, you'll code up this scenario. jackClubs (a val with a point value of 10) and aceDiamonds (a var with a point value of 1) are already defined.

Instructions
- [x] Create a var named playerA and with the name Alex as a string literal as its value.
- [x] Change the point value of the ace of diamonds so it is worth 11 points, instead of the original value of 1 point it was assigned.
- [x] Add jackClubs and aceDiamonds to calculate the value of Alex's hand and print the result.
```scala
// Create a mutable variable for Alex as player A
var playerA: String = "Alex"

// Change the point value of A♦ from 1 to 11
aceDiamonds = 11

// Calculate hand value for J♣ and A♦
println(jackClubs + aceDiamonds)

// playerA: String = "Alex"
// 21
```
## Pros and cons of immutability

At first think, it seems like having a variable that you can't change is a terrible idea and that we should always use var instead of val. But, in Scala, we actually prefer immutable variables (val, that is) where possible.

In this exercise, you'll categorize statements about immutability as either a pro or a con.

Instructions
> Categorize the following items as a Pro or a Con of immutability.
- Pros
  - Your code Is easler to reason about
  - You have to wrtte fewer tests
  - Your data won't be changed Inadvertentiy
- Cons
  - More memory required due to data copying 
