## Static typing vs. dynamic typing

The following definitions may be helpful:

`Type:` restricts the possible values to which a variable can refer, or an expression can produce, at run time.

`Compile time:` source code translated into machine code

`Run time:` when executing commands (after compilation, if compiled).

Instructions
> Categorize the statements as true for Statically-typed languages or true for Dynamically-typed languages.

- Statically-typed language
  - The type of a varlable Is known at complle time `all processes BEFORE`
  - Types are checked before executlon tme
  - Types are checked before run time
- Dynamically- typed language `all processes DURING`
  - Types are checked on the fily
  - Types are checked durlng run time
  - Types are checked during execution
## Pros and cons of static type systems

A language is statically typed if the type of a variable is known at compile time. That is, types are checked before run time. There are pros and cons that are commonly associated with the majority of static type systems. Scala's implementation of a static type system, which is advanced, attempts to address some of the cons.

In this exercise, you'll categorize statements about static type systems as either a pro, a con, or a con that is addressed by a feature of Scala's static type system.

Instructions
> Categorize the following qualities of static type systems as a Pro, a Con, or a Cons addressed by Scala's type system.

- Pros
  - Increased performance at run time
  - Your program behaves as expected (1.e.
    prove the absence of common type-related
    bugs)
  - Safe refactorings
  - Documentation In the form of type
    annotatlons (: Int In
    val fourHearts : Int 4)
- Cons
  - The time It takes to check types
- Cons addressed by Scala's type system
  - The language Is not flexlble (e.g. one strict
    way of composing a type)
  - Code Is verbose (.e., code Is longer/more
    annoylng to wrlte)
## if and printing

The if/else control structure allows you to chose the way your program control flows. You don't always need else, as you'll experience in this exercise.

If a player reaches 21 points, they'd probably appreciate a little recognition!

> In this exercise, you'll use the if keyword to print a congratulations when a player's hand equals 21. Remember, when there is no else, use curly braces for good    Scala style! The card variables you need are already defined.

Instructions
- [x] Write code that accomplishes the following: if a player's hand is equal to 21, print "Twenty-One!" to output.
- [x] Click "Run Code" and observe the output.
- [x] Change fourSpades to threeSpades, then click "Submit Answer".
```scala
// Point value of a player's hand
val hand = sevenClubs + kingDiamonds + threeSpades // was fourSpades

// Congratulate the player if they have reached 21

if (hand == 21) {
println("Twenty-One!") 
}
```
## if expressions result in a value

In Scala, if is an expression, and expressions result in a value. That means the result of if can be assigned to a variable.

Imagine you're playing Twenty-One. You receive cards from the dealer and would like to know where your hand stands. If your hand is greater than 21, a "Bust!" message informing us of this result would be disappointing but helpful. If our hand is 21 exactly, the congratulatory "Twenty-One!" message applies. If less than 21, the program should ask us, "Hit or stay?"

> In this exercise, you'll improve the code you wrote last exercise. You'll write an if-else if-else expression to store an appropriate message for the player's current hand in a variable. The card variables you need are already defined.

Instructions
- [x] Read the provided code, then fill in the type annotation for the informPlayer variable.
- [x] Write appropriate if, else if, and else conditions based on the provided code.
- [x] Change fiveSpades to fourSpades, then click "Run Code" and observe the output.
- [x] Change fourSpades to threeSpades, then click "Submit Answer".
```scala
// Point value of a player's hand
val hand = sevenClubs + kingDiamonds + threeSpades

// Inform a player where their current hand stands
val informPlayer: String = {
  if (hand > 21) 
    "Bust! :("
  else if ( hand == 21)
    "Twenty-One! :)"
  else
    "Hit or stay?"
}

// Print the message
print(informPlayer)

// w/ fiveSpades = Bust! :(
// w/ fourSpades = Twenty-One! :)
// w/ threeSpades = Hit or stay?
```
## # scala While
### # example :
```scala
// Define variables for while loop
var i = 0
val numRepetitions = 3
// Loop to repeat the cheer 
while (i < numRepetitions) {  
  println("Hip hip hooray!")  
  i = i + 1}Hip hip hooray
  
// !Hip hip hooray!
// Hip hip hooray!
// Hip hip hooray!
```
### # imperative style example : 
```scala
// boolean imperative style
var i = 0
var hands = Array (17, 24, 21)
while (i < hands. length) {
println (bust (hands (i)))
i += 1
}

//false
//true
//false
```
## A simple while loop

A while loop is another control structure, like if/else. while lets us automate the repetition of instructions to make our code more readable and concise.

In this exercise, you will write a while loop that loops three times. Using an incrementing counter variable and if/else logic, you will print "winner" in the first iteration of the loop, "winner" again in the second iteration, and "chicken dinner" in the third and final iteration. This printed message won't be used in the Twenty-One program exactly, though it could be used in the context of congratulating a player if they win a round.

Instructions
- [x] Define a counter variable, i, equal to zero.
- [x] Define the number of iterations for the while loop, numRepetitions, equal to three.
- [x] Fill out the first if clause so "winner" is printed in the first iteration of the loop, then "winner" again in the second iteration, and "chicken dinner" in the    final iteration.
- [x] Increment the counter variable by one. If you don't do this, your code will run indefinitely and the console will crash.
```scala
// Define counter variable
var i = 0

// Define the number of loop iterations
val numRepetitions = 3

// Loop to print a message for winner of the round
while (i < numRepetitions) {
  if (i < 2)
    println("winner")
  else
    println("chicken dinner")
  // Increment the counter variable
  i += 1
}

// winner
// winner
// chicken dinner
```
## Loop over a collection with while

The while construct causes the block of code between its curly braces to be executed repeatedly until the boolean expression at the top becomes false.

In the previous lesson, you created the body of the pointsToBust function to calculate the specific number of points. In this exercise, you'll write a while loop that loops through five hands (one for each player in the game) and finds the number of points to bust for each. Writing this while loop instead of calling the pointsToBust function five times makes our program more concise and readable.

Instructions
- [x] Define a counter variable, i. Set it equal to zero to start.
- [x] Using the counter variable i, write a while loop that proceeds through the loop hands.length times.
- [x] Find and print the winning hand's value for the ith hand.
- [x] Increment the counter variable.
```scala
// Define counter variable
var i =0

// Create list with five hands of Twenty-One
var hands = List(16, 21, 8, 25, 4)

// Loop through hands
while (i < hands.length) {
  // Find and print number of points to bust
  println(pointsToBust(hands(i)))
  // Increment the counter variable
  i += 1
}

// 5
// 0
// 13
// 0
// 17
```
