## Star and snowflake schema

      SNOWFLAKE SCHEMAS ------ NORMALIZE -> open in cascade data 
      STAR CHEMAS --- ------- DO NOT
## Running from star to snowflake

Remember your running database from last chapter? 

> After learning about the snowflake schema, you convert the current star schema into a snowflake schema. 
  To do this, you normalize route_dim and week_dim. 
  Which option best describes the resulting new tables after doing this?

The tables runs_fact, route_dim, and week_dim have been loaded.

Instructions
  - [ ] week_dim is extended two dimensions with new tables for month and year. route_dim is extended one dimension with a new table for city.
  - [x] week_dim is extended two dimensions with new tables for month and year. route_dim is extended two dimensions with new tables for city and park.
  - [ ] week_dim is extended three dimensions with new tables for week, month and year. route_dim is extended one dimension with new tables for city and park.


## Adding foreign keys

Foreign key references are essential to both the snowflake and star schema. When creating either of these schemas, correctly setting up the foreign 
keys is vital because they connect dimensions to the fact table. They also enforce a one-to-many relationship, because unless otherwise specified, a foreign key
can appear more than once in a table and primary key can appear only once.

> The fact_booksales table has three foreign keys: book_id, time_id, and store_id. In this exercise, the four tables that make up the star schema below have been 
  loaded. However, the foreign keys still need to be added. 

Instructions

- [x] In the constraint called sales_book, set book_id as a foreign key.
- [x] In the constraint called sales_time, set time_id as a foreign key.
- [x] In the constraint called sales_store, set store_id as a foreign key.

```sql
-- Add the book_id foreign key
ALTER TABLE fact_booksales ADD CONSTRAINT sales_book
    FOREIGN KEY (book_id) REFERENCES dim_book_star (book_id);
    
-- Add the time_id foreign key
ALTER TABLE fact_booksales ADD CONSTRAINT sales_time
    FOREIGN KEY (time_id) REFERENCES dim_time_star (time_id);
    
-- Add the store_id foreign key
ALTER TABLE fact_booksales ADD CONSTRAINT sales_store
    FOREIGN KEY (store_id) REFERENCES dim_store_star (store_id);
```

## Extending the book dimension
In the video, we saw how the book dimension differed between the star and snowflake schema. The star schema's dimension table for books, dim_book_star, has been loaded and below is the snowflake schema of the book dimension. 

> In this exercise, you are going to extend the star schema to meet part of the snowflake schema's criteria. Specifically, you will create dim_author from the data       provided in dim_book_star.

Instructions 1/2
- [x] Create dim_author with a column for author.
- [x] Insert all the distinct authors from dim_book_star into dim_author.

```sql
-- Create dim_author with an author column
CREATE TABLE dim_author (
    author varchar(256)  NOT NULL
);

-- Insert authors into the new table
INSERT INTO dim_author
SELECT DISTINCT author FROM dim_book_star;
```
Instructions 2/2
- [x] Alter dim_author to have a primary key called author_id.
- [x] Output all the columns of dim_author
```sql
-- Add a primary key 
ALTER TABLE dim_author ADD COLUMN author_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY;

-- Output the new table
SELECT * FROM dim_author;
```
## Normalized and denormalized databases
      
Normalization 
* saves space
* enforces data consistency
* safer updating, removing, and inserting
* Easier to redisign by extending    
- - OLTP : highly normalized
- - OLAP : less normalized

## Querying the star schema

> The novel genre hasn't been selling as well as your company predicted. To help remedy this, you've been tasked to run some analytics on the novel genre to find which   areas the Sales team should target. To begin, you want to look at the total amount of sales made in each state from books in the novel genre.

Luckily, you've just finished setting up a data warehouse with the following star schema:

The tables from this schema have been loaded.

Instructions

- [x] Select state from the appropriate table and the total sales_amount.
- [x] Complete the JOIN on book_id.
- [x] Complete the JOIN to connect the dim_store_star table
- [x] Conditionally select for books with the genre novel.
- [x] Group the results by state.
```sql
-- Output each state and their total sales_amount
SELECT s.state, sum(sales_amount)
FROM fact_booksales AS bs
	-- Join to get book information
    JOIN dim_book_star AS b on bs.book_id = b.book_id
	-- Join to get store information
    JOIN dim_store_star AS s on bs.store_id = s.store_id
-- Get all books with in the novel genre
WHERE  
    b.genre = 'novel'
-- Group results by state
GROUP BY
    s.state;
```
## Querying the snowflake schema

> Imagine that you didn't have the data warehouse set up. Instead, you'll have to run this query on the company's operational database, which means you'll have to       rewrite the previous query with the following snowflake schema:

The tables in this schema have been loaded. Remember, our goal is to find the amount of money made from the novel genre in each state.

Instructions

- [x] Select state from the appropriate table and the total sales_amount.
- [x] Complete the two JOINS to get the genre_id's.
- [x] Complete the three JOINS to get the state_id's.
- [x] Conditionally select for books with the genre novel.
- [x] Group the results by state.
```sql
-- Output each state and their total sales_amount
SELECT sta.state, sum(sales_amount) AS total_novel_sales_amount
FROM fact_booksales AS bs
    -- Joins for the genre
    JOIN dim_book_sf AS b on bs.book_id = b.book_id
    JOIN dim_genre_sf AS gen on b.genre_id = gen.genre_id
    -- Joins for the state 
    JOIN dim_store_sf AS sto on bs.store_id = sto.store_id 
    JOIN dim_city_sf AS c on sto.city_id = c.city_id
	JOIN dim_state_sf AS sta on  c.state_id = sta.state_id
-- Get all books with in the novel genre and group the results by state
WHERE  
    gen.genre = 'novel'
GROUP BY
   sta.state;
```
## Updating countries
Going through the company data, you notice there are some inconsistencies in the store addresses. These probably occurred during data entry, where people fill in fields using different naming conventions. This can be especially seen in the country field, and you decide that countries should be represented by their abbreviations. The only countries in the database are Canada and the United States, which should be represented as USA and CA.

> In this exercise, you will compare the records that need to be updated in order to do this task on the star and snowflake schema. dim_store_star and dim_country_sf     have been loaded.

Instructions 1/2
- [x] Output all the records that need to be updated in the star schema so that countries are represented by their abbreviations.
```sql
-- Output records that need to be updated in the star schema
SELECT * FROM dim_store_star 
WHERE country != 'USA' AND country !='CA';
```
Instructions 2/2
Question
> How many records would need to be updated in the snowflake schema?

Possible Answers
- [ ] 18 records
- [ ] 2 records
- [x] 1 record
- [ ] 0 records

## Extending the snowflake schema

The company is thinking about extending their business beyond bookstores in Canada and the US. Particularly, they want to expand to a new continent. In preparation, you decide a continent field is needed when storing the addresses of stores.

> Luckily, you have a snowflake schema in this scenario. As we discussed in the video, the snowflake schema is typically faster to extend while ensuring data             consistency. Along with dim_country_sf, a table called dim_continent_sf has been loaded. It contains the only continent currently needed, North America, and a         primary key. In this exercise, you'll need to extend dim_country_sf to reference dim_continent_sf.

Instructions
- [x] Add a continent_id column to dim_country_sf with a default value of 1. Note thatNOT NULL DEFAULT(1) constrains a value from being null and defaults its value to 1.
- [x] Make that new column a foreign key reference to dim_continent_sf's continent_id
```sql
-- Add a continent_id column with default value of 1
ALTER TABLE dim_country_sf
ADD continent_id int NOT NULL DEFAULT(1);

-- Add the foreign key constraint
ALTER TABLE dim_country_sf ADD CONSTRAINT country_continent
   FOREIGN KEY (continent_id) REFERENCES dim_continent_sf(continent_id);
   
-- Output updated table
SELECT * FROM dim_country_sf;
```
## Converting to 1NF

In the next three exercises, you'll be working through different tables belonging to a car rental company. Your job is to explore different schemas and gradually increase the normalization of these schemas through the different normal forms. At this stage, we're not worried about relocating the data, but rearranging the tables.

A table called customers has been loaded, which holds information about customers and the cars they have rented.

Instructions 1/2
> Does the customers table meet 1NF criteria?

Possible Answers

Question
- [ ] Yes, all the records are unique.
- [x] No, because there are multiple values in cars_rented and invoice_id
- [ ] No, because the non-key columns such as don't depend on customer_id, the primary key.

Instructions 2/2
- [x] cars_rented holds one or more car_ids and invoice_id holds multiple values. Create a new table to hold individual car_ids and invoice_ids of the customer_ids who've rented those cars.
- [x] Drop two columns from customers table to satisfy 1NF
