## #Database roles and access control

### #examples:
```sql
-- Create a GROUP rol:
CREATE ROLE data_analyst;

-- Rol w/ attributes set USER ROL:
CREATE ROLE intern
With password = 'PasswordForIntern'  VALID UNTIL '2020-01-01';

-- ROL admin:
CREATE ROL admin CREATEDB;
-- ALTER ROL admin:
ALTER ROL admin CREATEROL;

-- granting and revoking from roles:
GRANT UPDATE ON ratings TO data_analyst;

REVOKE UPDATE ON ratings FROM data_analyst;
```
## Create a role

A database role is an entity that contains information that define the role's privileges and interact with the client authentication system. Roles allow you to give different people (and often groups of people) that interact with your data different levels of access.

> Imagine you founded a startup. You are about to hire a group of data scientists. You also hired someone named Marta who needs to be able to login to your database.   You're also about to hire a database administrator. In this exercise, you will create these roles.

Instructions 3/3
- [x] 1. Create a role called data_scientist.
- [x] 2. Create a role called marta that has one attribute: the ability to login (LOGIN).
- [x] 3. Create a role called admin with the ability to create databases (CREATEDB) and to create roles (CREATEROLE).
```sql
-- Create a data scientist role
CREATE ROLE data_scientist;

-- 2
-- Create a role for Marta w/ login attribute
CREATE ROLE marta LOGIN;

--3
-- Create an admin role
CREATE ROLE admin WITH CREATEDB CREATEROLE;
```
## GRANT privileges and ALTER attributes

Once roles are created, you grant them specific access control privileges on objects, like tables and views. Common privileges being SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, etc.

> Imagine you're a cofounder of that startup and you want all of your data scientists to be able to update and insert data in the long_reviews view. In this exercise,   you will enable those soon-to-be-hired data scientists by granting their role (data_scientist) those privileges. Also, you'll give Marta's role a password.

Instructions

- [x] Grant the data_scientist role update and insert privileges on the long_reviews view.
- [x] Alter Marta's role to give her the provided password.
```sql
-- Grant data_scientist update and insert privileges
GRANT UPDATE, INSERT ON long_reviews TO data_scientist;

-- Give Marta's role a password, (already exists)
ALTER ROLE marta WITH PASSWORD 's3cur3p@ssw0rd';
```
## Add a user role to a group role

There are two types of roles: user roles and group roles. By assigning a user role to a group role, a database administrator can add complicated levels of access to their databases with one simple command.

> For your startup, your search for data scientist hires is taking longer than expected. Fortunately, it turns out that Marta, your recent hire, has previous data        science experience and she's willing to chip in the interim. In this exercise, you'll add Marta's user role to the data scientist group role. You'll then remove      her after you complete your hiring process.

Instructions

- [x] Add Marta's user role to the data scientist group role.
- [x] Celebrate! You hired multiple data scientists.
- [x] Remove Marta's user role from the data scientist group role.
```sql
-- Add Marta to the data scientist group
GRANT data_scientist TO marta;

-- Celebrate! You hired data scientists.

-- Remove Marta from the data scientist group
REVOKE data_scientist FROM marta;
```
## #Table partitioning
